.TH KEYMAPS 1 "2026-03-06" "dotfiles" "Development Environment Key Mappings"
.SH NAME
keymaps \- Display comprehensive key mappings for development environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B keymaps
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B keymaps
displays a comprehensive, colorized reference of all key mappings across your
entire development environment, including ZSH shell, FZF fuzzy finder, TMUX
terminal multiplexer, TIG git browser, and NEOVIM editor.
.PP
This tool provides a unified interface to view all custom key bindings and
shortcuts in a well-organized, visually appealing format with color coding
and logical categorization.
.SH ENVIRONMENTS COVERED
.SS ZSH Shell Key Mappings
History and navigation key bindings:
.TP
.B <Up>/<Down>
History substring search (backward/forward in history for matching substring)
.TP
.B <C-Left>/<C-Right>
Word-by-word navigation (forward/backward word)
.TP
.B <C-U>
Kill from cursor to beginning of line (bash-like behavior)
.TP
.B <Delete>
Delete character under cursor
.TP
.B <Home>/<End>
Go to beginning/end of line
.TP
.PP
Note: <C-R> triggers history search via FZF
.SS FZF Fuzzy Finder Key Mappings
File and directory search functionality (if fzf is installed):
.TP
.B <C-T>
Find and open files
.TP
.B <C-R>
Search command history (if fzf-history-widget is enabled)
.TP
.B <C-C>
Change directory with fuzzy search
.TP
.B <Alt-C>
Alternative directory change
.PP
Navigation within FZF interface:
.TP
.B <C-J>/<C-K>
Move down/up in results
.TP
.B <C-N>/<C-P>
Alternative navigation keys
.TP
.B <Enter>
Select current item
.TP
.B <Esc>
Cancel and exit
.TP
.B <C-G>
Abort search
.PP
Note: FZF keybindings are provided by fzf.zsh if fzf is installed.
.SS TMUX Terminal Multiplexer Key Mappings
Session and window management:
.TP
.B <C-A>
Prefix key (replaces default <C-B>)
.TP
.B a
Send literal Ctrl+A (after prefix)
.TP
.B <C-D>
Detach from current session (no prefix)
.TP
.B <C-C>
Create new window (no prefix)
.PP
Window management:
.TP
.B <C-N>/<C-P>
Next/previous window (after prefix)
.TP
.B ^\\
Last window (no prefix required)
.TP
.B s/<C-S>
Horizontal split (after prefix)
.TP
.B v/<C-V>
Vertical split (after prefix)
.PP
Pane management:
.TP
.B |
Maximize/unmaximize current pane (after prefix)
.TP
.B J/K/H/L
Resize pane down/up/left/right (after prefix)
.PP
Pane navigation (no prefix required):
.TP
.B <Alt-Left>/<Alt-Right>/<Alt-Up>/<Alt-Down>
Select panes in respective directions
.PP
Session management:
.TP
.B <C-K>/<C-J>
Previous/next session (repeatable, no prefix)
.TP
.B <Alt-Left>/<Alt-Right>
Alternative session navigation (no prefix)
.TP
.B C
Create new session (after prefix)
.TP
.B f
FZF session/window switcher (after prefix). Fuzzy search across all sessions
and windows. If the query doesn't match, a new session is created with that
name. Shows a live preview of the active pane.
.TP
.B g
Claude sessions browser (after prefix). Browse and resume Claude CLI
conversations grouped by project with a live conversation preview. Select
a session to open it in a new tmux window via
.IR "claude -r" .
If the session is already open, switches to its window.
.TP
.B <Mouse-Left> (on status bar)
Session switcher menu
.TP
.B <Mouse-Right> (on status bar)
Session switcher menu (alternative)
.SS TIG Git Browser Key Mappings
Git operations:
.TP
.B F
Fetch from remote
.TP
.B U
Pull from remote
.TP
.B P
Push current branch to remote
.TP
.B S
Stash changes with comment
.PP
Navigation and editing:
.TP
.B E
Open file in nvim
.TP
.B B
Open blame view
.TP
.B D
View diff through delta (rich diff output)
.TP
.B <Esc>f
Toggle file name / commit title refs
.TP
.B <Esc>u
Update branch (checkout, pull --ff-only, checkout back)
.PP
Conventional commits (cog integration):
.TP
.B c
Create conventional commit (cog commit)
.TP
.B ch
Check all commits against conventional spec
.TP
.B cv
Verify selected commit message
.TP
.B ce
Edit invalid commit messages
.TP
.B cl
View conventional commit log
.TP
.B cg
View changelog (latest tag to HEAD)
.TP
.B cV
Get current version from tags
.TP
.B cb
Bump version (changelog commit + tag)
.TP
.B ci
Install cog git hooks
.TP
.B ca
Stage all and create conventional commit
.PP
SCM integration (auto-detects GitHub/GitLab from remote):
.PP
All bindings below automatically detect the SCM platform by inspecting the
.B origin
remote URL. If it contains
.IR github.com ,
the
.B gh
CLI is used; otherwise the
.B glab
CLI is used (supporting both gitlab.com and self-hosted GitLab instances).
This means the same keybinding works regardless of which platform hosts the
repository \(em no configuration needed.
.TP
.B go
Open the repository homepage in your default browser. Useful for quickly
jumping to the project page to check settings, wiki, or README.
Uses
.IR "gh browse" \ or\ "glab repo view --web" .
.TP
.B gp
View the pull request (GitHub) or merge request (GitLab) associated with the
current branch in your browser. Handy to check review status, CI results, or
comment threads without leaving the terminal.
Uses
.IR "gh pr view --web" \ or\ "glab mr view --web" .
.TP
.B gP
Create a new pull request or merge request for the current branch. Opens the
creation form in the browser pre-filled with the branch info, so you can add
a description and reviewers.
Uses
.IR "gh pr create --web" \ or\ "glab mr create --web" .
.TP
.B gw
Open the currently selected commit in the browser. Select a commit in the main
or log view, then press
.B gw
to see its full diff, comments, and CI status on the web interface.
Uses
.IR "gh browse <commit>" \ or\ "glab repo view --web -b <commit>" .
.TP
.B gl
List all open pull requests (GitHub) or merge requests (GitLab) for the
repository directly in the terminal. Displays title, author, and status for
a quick overview of pending work.
Uses
.IR "gh pr list" \ or\ "glab mr list" .
.TP
.B gs
Show CI/CD pipeline status for the current branch. On GitHub, lists recent
workflow runs; on GitLab, opens the pipeline viewer. Useful to check if your
latest push passed or failed without leaving tig.
Uses
.IR "gh run list -b <branch>" \ or\ "glab ci view" .
.SS NEOVIM Editor Key Mappings
General navigation:
.TP
.B j/k
Linewrap-aware movement (gj/gk)
.TP
.B gj/gk
Original Vim movement
.PP
Tab navigation:
.TP
.B <C-Left>/<C-Right>
Previous/next tab
.PP
Buffer management:
.TP
.B <leader><leader>
Switch to previous buffer
.TP
.B <C-w><C-d>
Close current buffer
.PP
Text manipulation:
.TP
.B gV
Visually select last edited/pasted text
.TP
.B gp
Select last pasted text
.TP
.B <C-k>/<C-j>
Move line up/down
.TP
.B <C-k>/<C-j> (visual)
Move selection up/down
.PP
Folding:
.TP
.B <F8>
Toggle fold
.TP
.B <S-F8>
Toggle fold recursively
.TP
.B <C-F8>
Open all folds
.TP
.B <C-S-F8>
Close all folds
.PP
Visual aids:
.TP
.B <F10>
Toggle column highlighting
.PP
Surroundings (visual mode):
.TP
.B (/{/[/'/"
Surround selection with parentheses/braces/brackets/quotes
.PP
Configuration:
.TP
.B <C-R>
Reload configuration
.TP
.B <C-F11>
Toggle relative line numbering
.PP
File operations:
.TP
.B <C-s>
Save current buffer
.TP
.B %%
Expand to directory path
.TP
.B $$
Expand to full file path
.TP
.B \\fn
Insert current filename
.PP
Search and highlighting:
.TP
.B <C-L>
Clear search highlighting
.PP
Indentation (visual mode):
.TP
.B </>
Indent left/right
.PP
Plugin mappings:
.TP
.B <C-T>
Toggle NERDTree
.TP
.B <F2>
Toggle EasyBuffer
.TP
.B <F6>
Toggle Undotree
.TP
.B //
Toggle comment (TComment)
.TP
.B gh/gH
Next/previous GitGutter hunk
.TP
.B gx
Smart search (Open Browser)
.PP
LSP mappings (NeoVim, via nvim-lspconfig):
.PP
NeoVim 0.11+ provides these as defaults. Fallback keymaps are set for older versions.
.TP
.B K
Hover information
.TP
.B gd
Go to definition
.TP
.B grn
Rename symbol
.TP
.B gra
Code action
.TP
.B grr
References
.PP
Completion (NeoVim, via nvim-cmp):
.TP
.B <Tab>
Next completion item or snippet jump
.TP
.B <S-Tab>
Previous completion item
.TP
.B <CR>
Confirm completion
.TP
.B <C-Space>
Trigger completion manually
.PP
which-key (NeoVim):
.TP
.B <Space>
Wait briefly to see keybinding popup with available mappings
.PP
Terminal mode:
.TP
.B <Esc>
Switch to normal mode
.TP
.B <C-v><Esc>
Insert literal Escape
.PP
Special commands:
.TP
.B :W
Write as superuser
.TP
.B Q
Disable Ex mode
.PP
.B Leader Key: <space>
.br
The leader key is set to space. Use it with other keys for custom mappings.
.SH QUICK REFERENCE
Environment-specific tips:
.TP
.B ZSH
Use <Up>/<Down> for history substring search, <C-R> for history search
.TP
.B FZF
<C-T> for files, <C-C> for directories (if fzf is installed)
.TP
.B TMUX
<C-A> is the prefix key (replaces <C-B>). Many commands work without prefix.
<C-A> f for FZF session/window switcher, <C-A> g for Claude sessions browser.
.TP
.B TIG
F to fetch, P to push, c for cog commit, go/gp/gl for SCM (auto-detects gh/glab), D for delta diff.
.TP
.B NEOVIM
<space> is the leader key. <C-s> to save, K for LSP hover, <Tab> for completion, <space> for which-key popup.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.dotfiles/configs/shell/zsh/functions.zsh
Contains the keymaps function definition
.TP
.B ~/.dotfiles/configs/editor/nvim/KEYMAPS.md
Detailed Neovim key mappings documentation
.TP
.B ~/.dotfiles/configs/terminal/tmux/tmux.conf
TMUX configuration file
.TP
.B ~/.dotfiles/configs/shell/zsh/.zshrc
ZSH configuration file
.TP
.B ~/.dotfiles/configs/tools/tig/tigrc
TIG configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR man (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR nvim (1),
.BR zsh (1),
.BR tig (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Generated for dotfiles configuration by Claude AI Assistant
.SH BUGS
Report issues with the keymaps function or missing mappings to the dotfiles
repository maintainer.
